
<html>

  <body>
    <h1>JWT Basics API</h1>
    <p>This is a simple authentication API created using Node.js, Express.js, and JSON Web Tokens (JWT).</p>
    <h2>Getting started</h2>
    <p>To get started with the application, you will need to have Node.js installed on your system.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>First, clone the repository and navigate to the project directory.</li>
      <pre><code>git clone git@github.com:MuslimShah/jwt-basics.git</code></pre>
      <span>change your directory</span>
      <pre><code>cd jwt-basics</code></pre>
      <li>Then, install the necessary dependencies using npm:</li>
      <pre><code>npm install</code></pre>
      <li>You will also need to create a <code>.env</code> file in the project root directory and set the following environment variables:</li>
      <pre><code>JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key</code></pre>
      <p>Make sure to replace <code>your_jwt_secret_key</code> with your own secret key.</p>
      <li>Start the server by running:</li>
      <pre><code>npm start</code></pre>
    </ol>
    <h2>API routes</h2>
    <p>The following API routes are available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><code>POST /api/v1/login</code> - Authenticates the user and generates a JWT token.</li>
      <li><code>GET /api/v1/dashboard</code> - Returns a private message only accessible to authenticated users.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>You can find the implementation details of these routes in the <code>routes/userRoutes.js</code> file.</p>
    <h2>Authentication middleware</h2>
    <p>The <code>authMiddleWare</code> middleware function is used to authenticate the JWT token for the private dashboard route.</p>
    <h2>Testing the API with cURL</h2>
    <p>You can test the API routes using cURL:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Login:</li>
      <pre><code>curl -X POST \
http://localhost:3000/api/v1/login \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
    "username": "your_username",
    "password": "your_password"
}'</code></pre>
      <li>Access dashboard:</li>
      <pre><code>curl -X GET \
http://localhost:3000/api/v1/dashboard \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer &lt;your_jwt_token&gt;'</code></pre>
      <p>Make sure to replace <code>&lt;your_jwt_token&gt;</code> with the JWT token generated by the login route.</p>
    </ul>
    <h2>License</h2>
    <p>This project is licensed under the ISC License. See the <a href="LICENSE">LICENSE</a> file for details.</p>
  </body>
</html>
